feat: update workflow agent feature docs (#220)
agno-agi/docs: concepts/workflows/conversational-workflows.mdx

---
title: Conversational Workflows
description: Learn about conversational workflows in Agno.
---

If your users interact directly with a Workflow, it is often useful to make it a **Conversational Workflow**. Users will then be able to chat with the Workflow, 
in the same fashion as chatting with an Agent or with a LLM works.

This feature allows you to add a `WorkflowAgent` to your workflow that intelligently decides whether to:

> 1. **Answer directly** based on the current input and the workflow session history

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Answer directly** based on the current input and past workflow results
```

> 2. **Run the workflow** when new processing is needed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Run the workflow** when the input cannot be answered based on past results
```

```python
from agno.workflow import WorkflowAgent
from agno.workflow.workflow import Workflow
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat

workflow_agent = WorkflowAgent(model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"), num_history_runs=4)

workflow = Workflow(
    name="Story Generation Workflow",
    description="A workflow that generates stories, formats them, and adds references",
    agent=workflow_agent,
)
```

## Architecture

<img 
  className="block dark:hidden" 
  src="/images/workflow-agent-flow-light.png" 
  alt="Workflows conversational workflows diagram"
  style={{ maxWidth: '500px', width: '100%', height: 'auto' }}
/>
<img 
  className="hidden dark:block" 
  src="/images/workflow-agent-flow-dark.png" 
  alt="Workflows conversational workflows diagram"
  style={{ maxWidth: '500px', width: '100%', height: 'auto' }}
/>

## Workflow History for Conversational Workflows:

Similar to [workflow history for steps](/concepts/workflows/workflow_with_history), the `WorkflowAgent` has access to the full workflow history runs for that session.
This makes it possible to answer questions about previous results, compare outputs from multiple runs, and understand conversation continuity.

<Tip>

> Understanding `num_history_runs`

Reviewer 2: This line seems a bit out of nowhere, without a fullstop

The `num_history_runs` parameter controls how many previous workflow runs the agent can see when making decisions. This is crucial for:

- **Context awareness**: The agent needs to see past runs to answer follow-up questions
- **Memory limits**: Including too many runs can exceed model context limits

> - **Performance**: Fewer runs mean faster processing and lower costs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Performance**: Fewer runs mean faster processing and lower input tokens
```

story_writer = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"),
    instructions="You are tasked with writing a 100 word story based on a given topic",
)

story_formatter = Agent(
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"),
    instructions="You are tasked with breaking down a short story in prelogues, body and epilogue",
)

def add_references(step_input: StepInput):
    """Add references to the story"""

    previous_output = step_input.previous_step_content

    if isinstance(previous_output, str):
        return previous_output + "\n\nReferences: https://www.agno.com"

# Create a WorkflowAgent that will decide when to run the workflow
workflow_agent = WorkflowAgent(model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4o-mini"), num_history_runs=4)

# Create workflow with the WorkflowAgent
workflow = Workflow(
    name="Story Generation Workflow",
    description="A workflow that generates stories, formats them, and adds references",
    agent=workflow_agent,
    steps=[story_writer, story_formatter, add_references],
    db=PostgresDb(db_url),
    # debug_mode=True,
)

# First call - will run the workflow (new topic)
workflow.print_response(
    "Tell me a story about a dog named Rocky",
    stream=True,

>     stream_intermediate_steps=True,

Reviewer 2: Remember it is now stream_events

Reviewer 2: And are they actually needed in these snippets? If not I suggest remove

---
title: Conversational Workflows
description: Learn about conversational workflows in Agno.
---

**Conversational Workflows** enable your workflows to have intelligent conversations with users. 

> This feature allows you to add a `WorkflowAgent` to your workflow that intelligently decides whether to:

Reviewer 3: I'd adjust this introduction to clarify **when** this feature is useful first. Something like:

```
If your users interact directly with a Workflow, it is often useful to make it a **conversational Workflow**. Users will then be able to chat with the Workflow, in the same fashion as chatting with an Agent or with a LLM works.

...
```

1. **Answer directly** from workflow session history
2. **Run the workflow** by calling a tool when new processing is needed

<Note>
The `WorkflowAgent` is a restricted version of the `Agent` class specifically designed for workflow orchestration. It uses a tool-based approach to decide when to execute workflows, providing:
- **Better determinism** - Tool calls are explicit and trackable
- **Improved reliability** - Clear decision boundaries between answering and executing
- **Session awareness** - Automatically accesses workflow history for context
</Note>

## Architecture

```
User Input
    ↓
WorkflowAgent (with workflow execution tool)
    ↓
Decision Point:
    ├─ Answer from history (no workflow execution)
    └─ Call `run_workflow` tool (executes workflow)
         ↓
    Workflow Steps Executed
         ↓
    Results stored in session
         ↓
    Response returned to user
```

## Key Components

### 1. `WorkflowAgent` Class
A restricted Agent with limited configuration. See [`WorkflowAgent` Reference](/reference/workflows/workflow_agent) for more details.

> <Tip>

Reviewer 2: I'd have a subsection specifically about history, with links to the other forms of history for workflows

Understanding `num_history_runs`

The `num_history_runs` parameter controls how many previous workflow runs the agent can see when making decisions. This is crucial for:

- **Context awareness**: The agent needs to see past runs to answer follow-up questions
- **Memory limits**: Including too many runs can exceed model context limits
- **Performance**: Fewer runs mean faster processing and lower costs

**How it works:**

When a new query arrives, the `WorkflowAgent` retrieves messages from the last `n` runs using:

> ```python

Reviewer 2: Too technical. You can just describe the effect
